# [uv](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ap2sWj5yDIY) 

UV is a modern package and dependency manager for Python, designed to simplify project management by consolidating various tools into one powerful solution. It allows developers to easily manage dependencies, virtual environments, and Python versions with speed and efficiency.

## Key Features and Commands
### 1. Installation:
You can install UV using one of the following methods:

**cURL:**
```bash
curl -sSL https://install.uv.dev | sh
```

**Pip:**
```bash
pip install uv
```

### 2. Project Initialization:
To create a new project, run:
```bash
uv init
```
- This command creates a `pyproject.toml` file, which organizes all project dependencies and specifies the Python version.

### 3.Adding Dependencies:
To add the typer library:
```bash
uv add typer
```

To add `pytest` as a development dependency:
```bash
uv add pytest --dev
```

### 4. Running:
To run tests with `pytest`, use:
```bash
uv run pytest
```
- This command executes the tests and automatically manages any dependencies.

### 5. Managing Python Versions:
To check python version:
```bash
uv run python --version
```

To update the Python version in your project:
1. Modify the `pyproject.toml` file to specify the desired Python version (e.g., change from `3.8` to `3.12`).
2. Then run: 
```bash
uv sync
```
- This command installs the specified Python version and updates dependencies accordingly.

### 6. Adding Heavy Dependencies:
You can add multiple libraries in one go:
```bash
uv add fastapi jupyter pandas
```
- This command resolves all dependencies and installs them quickly.

### 7. Running Standalone Commands:
For isolated tasks, UV allows you to run commands using:
```bash
uv run <command>
```

Example: To check code formatting with `ruff`, you can use:
```bash
uv run ruff check
```

UV also supports shortcuts for convenience, use `uvx` as a shortcut for running isolated commands.
```bash
uvx check
```

To format your code with `ruff`, run:
```bash
uv run ruff format
```

UV is a comprehensive and efficient tool for managing Python projects. With its straightforward commands and capabilities, it simplifies dependency management, virtual environment handling, and project setup.